---
title: "A C0 linear finite element method for a second-order elliptic equation in non-divergence form with Cordes coefficients"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2022-xu-c0
# excerpt: 'This paper is about the number 1. The number 2 is left for future work.'
# date: 2009-10-01
# venue: 'Journal 1'
paperurl: 'https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/num.22965'
citation: 'Minqiang Xu, Runchang Lin, Qingsong Zou. A C0 linear finite element method for a second-order elliptic equation in non-divergence form with Cordes coefficients. Numerical Methods for Partial Differential Equations, 2022.'
---

- **Manuscript accepted:** 28 October 2022
- **Manuscript revised:** 17 October 2022
- **Manuscript received:** 20 May 2021

## Abstract

In this paper, we develop a gradient recovery based linear (GRBL) finite element method (FEM) and a Hessian recovery based linear FEM for second-order elliptic equations in non-divergence form. The elliptic equation is casted into a symmetric non-divergence weak formulation, in which second-order derivatives of the unknown function are involved. We use gradient and Hessian recovery operators to calculate the second-order derivatives of linear finite element approximations. Although, thanks to low degrees of freedom of linear elements, the implementation of the proposed schemes is easy and straightforward, the performances of the methods are competitive. The unique solvability and the $H^2$ seminorm error estimate of the GRBL scheme are rigorously proved. Optimal error estimates in both the $L^2$ norm and the $H^1$ seminorm have been proved when the coefficient is diagonal, which have been confirmed by numerical experiments. Superconvergence in errors has also been observed. Moreover, our methods can handle computational domains with curved boundaries without loss of accuracy from approximation of boundaries. Finally, the proposed numerical methods have been successfully applied to solve fully nonlinear Monge–Ampère equations.

[Download paper](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/num.22965)


## Recommended Citation

* Minqiang Xu, Runchang Lin, Qingsong Zou. A C0 linear finite element method for a second-order elliptic equation in non-divergence form with Cordes coefficients. *Numerical Methods for Partial Differential Equations*, 2022.

### BibTeX
```bibtex
@article{xu2022ac,
  title={AC 0 linear finite element method for a second-order elliptic equation in non-divergence form with Cordes coefficients},
  author={Xu, Minqiang and Lin, Runchang and Zou, Qingsong},
  journal={Numerical Methods for Partial Differential Equations},
  year={2022},
  publisher={Wiley Online Library}
}
```